Comment-Id:	10582295
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Tue Nov 17 16:50:56 UTC 2015
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	10581618

I'm just giving you a book recommendation pertinent to your question of how a
non-religious person might define "good".

Another commenter in this thread, @marcosscriven, also linked to The God
Delusion. It's been a while since I read it, but I remember it being quite
informative too.

    > no-one has come up with a good "right" way to
    > live or act and it is often even harder without
    > a theist grounding to decide on some pretty major
    > points.

This is just something you're asserting without arguments. Proponents of
secular explanations for "morality" would argue the opposite.

There's no innate compelling reason for why Reasoning about morality from a
theist background would be easier. I think all evidence points to the contrary.

Perhaps you disagree with that, but we could have a more interesting discussion
if instead of blindly asserting our positions we'd back them up with some
arguments, don't you think? :)

There are a lot of societies on the planet today that have little to nothing to
do with the Judeo-Christian tradition or are otherwise without a scriptural
moral tradition.

Do you really think those societies or their members are more inherently
immoral? At best the idea is naÃ¯ve, at worst xenophobic and offensive.

    > Plus going back to burning witches and
    > stoning homosexuals, really?
    > [...]
    > It isn't about "cherry picking".
    > Different traditions have their basis,
    > I'm not sola scriptorum, the CofE believes
    > in "scripture, reason and tradition".

I wasn't mentioning homosexuals and burning witches to rile you up, but rather
as an extreme (but I feel appropriate) example of how much of scripture is at
best the source of ambiguous instructions when it comes to moral issues.

You're quite correct that the moral tradition of Christianity doesn't stop at
scripture. I'm not only agreeing with that, but suggesting that that
post-scripture process is actually the only relevant process by which we arrive
at moral truths.

Why is it that we've decided to put more emphasis on some stories in scripture
than others? That really is largely a process that can best be described as
cherry-picking. How do we decide what to cherry-pick?

I think the evidence is clearly on the side of the secular argument that humans
are social animals, therefore we need to exist (mostly) peacefully in groups,
which gives rise to "moral" principles like not screwing with your neighbor
least he screws with you back.

Scripture is really just an adaptation of these principles in the form of
stories and allegories. Those stories are important to reinforce those ideas in
society, but to say that they're the primary source is putting the cart before
the horse.
