Comment-Id:	10715347
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Fri Dec 11 03:51:36 UTC 2015
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	10715066

I think you're falling for the fallacy of assigning political opinions to a
one-dimensional spectrum of liberal v.s. conservative, and doubly so by
asserting that your opinion on a given issue can only be caused by being on one
end of that spectrum.

Even if you assume a one-dimensional political spectrum there's plenty of
reasons for why someone might by for or against immigration for any number of
reasons.

For simplicity's sake let's use the stereotypical US definitions of
conservative and liberal, even then you can find plenty of reasons on both
sides to be for and against immigration.

You could be conservative and be for it because you're a business owner and it
implies cheap labor, or against it because you're also a xenophobe and just
don't like people from other countries.

You could be for it as a liberal because you believe in some pan-nationalistic
idea of humanity without borders, or against it because you think the influx of
cheap labor will ultimately create a lower class within society which
interferes with the project of a socialist state.

You mentioned Scotland as an example among the rise of the rise of right-wing
ideals in Europe. I think it's entirely unrealistic to mention that in the same
paragraph as nationalism leading to "massacres, and other oppression". If
anything bad things might happen because Scotland is being denied national
autonomy, just look at what's been happening in Ireland.

Sometimes people just want to do their own thing in their own little piece of
the planet. I myself am from Iceland which has a long history of a nationalist
movement that has nothing to do with any of that stuff. Sometimes people just
want a bit of self-determinism without negatively impacting others. Ascribing
that desire to left or right or conservative or liberal is a gross and
inaccurate oversimplification.
