Comment-Id:	14034976
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Tue Apr  4 17:10:39 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	14034308

You're misreading the graph[1]. The 2-7 grouping is all gun deaths, homicides,
suicides, and accidental deaths.

If you hover over individual blue counties you can see the breakdown by
homicide and suicide rate for some of them.

E.g. Washington, NY has a gun homicide rate of 0.46, gun suicide rate of 5.14.
Meanwhile The Netherlands has a gun homicide rate of 0.29, gun suicide rate of
0.28, but an overall homicide rate of 0.7[2], and an overall suicide rate of
8.2, while the US has a suicide rate of 12.1.

Does The Netherlands still come out better? Am I cherry-picking by comparing
county-level statistics v.s. entire countries? Yes and yes.

But for the point I'm making it doesn't matter. The point is that there's a
common misunderstanding, particularly among mainland Europeans, that the mere
availability of guns in the US results in a drastic increase in the homicide
rate.

This is simply not supported by the data. What the data does show is that if
you're going to kill yourself or others you're likely to use the best tool for
the task, whether that's a gun or a knife.

Does the ease of availability of guns in the US make it easier to kill people,
and cause some murders that otherwise wouldn't have happened? Yeah, but it's
hard to tease that out of the data, it also prevents some murders.

What we do see from the data[2] is that there's lots of countries with much
more restrictive gun policies that have higher homicide rates than the US, and
furthermore the occurrences of gun-related homicides in the US don't at all map
to whether the area has more liberal access to guns, but whether there's a
general crime & poverty problem there.

Lithuania has a significantly higher homicide rate than the US, 5.5 v.s. the
US's 3.9, but just 1% of homicides there are gun crimes[3].

However I've never heard anyone say to my Lithuanian friends that they were
lucky to get out because of the obscene murder rate there, but I've heard my
fellow Europeans make comments like that to some of my American friends when it
comes to gun crimes.

1. http://projects.oregonlive.com/ucc-shooting/gun-deaths

2. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_intention...

3. https://www.gunpolicy.org/firearms/citation/quotes/10319
