Comment-Id:	14436075
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Sun May 28 21:02:45 UTC 2017
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	14435725

You're making a couple of assumptions which make your entire argument invalid
in the context of a "private" blockchain between e.g. several banks.

The first is that you're assuming a race to the bottom where the banks will
simply try to outspend each other on CPU. You can get a lot of the benefits of
a blockchain where e.g. the 10 banks could all agree to each have 1 x86 box
contributing to their part of the blockchain.

Any violation of such an agreement could be easily solved in meatspace, i.e. 9/
10 remaining banks would just agree to ignore the chain maintained by the
violator. Since they'd all recognize that they're getting /other/ benefits out
of the blockchain without succumbing to some game-theory-esque race to the
bottom.

Even if there's no such agreement the claim that any sort of alternate
blockchain will use up the same resources as Bitcoin itself does is trivially
refuted by various altcoins which use up less total CPU, since they're smaller
networks.

The second faulty assumption is thinking that the only thing standing in the
way of rewriting blockchain history is prohibitively expensive CPU resources.
In the context of a "private" bank blockchain the banks could simply manually
ignore a branch of the chain recognized as being produced by some malicious
actor.

That leaves a bunch of valuable uses of the blockchain for banks. It's been
mentioned as a replacement for the largely manual cross-bank money settling
protocols they use now, replacing those with a blockchain would likely be much
more secure and transparent, and any issues that arose by voluntarily running a
"limited" blockchain would likely be smaller and more easily mitigated than
whatever security issues their ad-hoc protocols have now.
