Comment-Id:	3062845
Comment-Author:	avar
Comment-Date:	Sun Oct  2 13:53:29 UTC 2011
Comment-Type:	comment
Parent-Id:	3062517

I'm running a Samsung Galaxy S2 that I've rooted. Here's my most commonly used
applications, all of which I recommend:

* Smart Keyboard Pro: https://market.android.com/details?id=
net.cdeguet.smartkeybo... -- Allows me to use a Dvorak keyboard on the phone,
but even if you don't use Dvorak it's still a great purchase. It has a lot of
options to make your typing more efficient that the stock keyboard doesn't
have.

* The Kindle app to read books. Now I mostly use it to read .mobi files I've
downloaded instead of buying things at the Amazon store, for which it works
brilliantly. I wish it allowed copy/pasting of text though.

Google Reader for RSS/Atom

* GMail application for GMail.

* The stock Mail application for work IMAP, although I'll test out K-9
mentioned in this thread

* ColorNote for taking notes / shopping lists.

* live logcat for the novelty of having a l33t boot sequence (and getting rid
of that annoying Samsung boot-up sound): https://market.android.com/details?id=
eu.chainfire.livelogca...

* Root Explorer to manage root-only files.

* Skype to make video calls

* ConnectBot to ssh from the phone, although I haven't found out how to enable
landscape mode in it, which is annoying.

* Listen for podcasts, although I haven't found out how to make it
auto-download say the last 3 podcasts of everything I subscribe to.

* BBC News and Al Jazeera video for some world news

* Gh4a to browse GitHub

* AdFree to block spam

* Screenshot to take screenshots

* WolframAlpha for any sort of conversion / math queries.

* A PushUp / SitUp / Squats app (all separate apps) for managed stationary
exercise. Although I'd like to find something that I could turn on and would
give me instructions for a general N-minute workout that could be done at home.

Things I wish I didn't have to use, or don't know how to do, but haven't found
out how to replace / do:

* The default Samsung camera application. There's no way to turn off the
shutter noise on it, and it'll plain refuse to take pictures if the battery is
low.

* The default task switcher, which often doesn't list the application I've just
switched from (even though it's still open)

* The default system clipboard which doesn't seem to have a history / search
feature like Emacs's kill ring.

* Having the default Samsung apps installed on the phone. I tried to use
Titanium Backup PRO but it didn't work for removing or freezing them.

* Having something like Gesture search which searches across the entire phone
but doesn't require me to draw on the screen, I just want to type a query.

* Sometimes the phone will go into some sort of voice command mode. I haven't
found out how to disable it.

Lastly I plan to write an application that hooks into the "Share" handler for
text/plain content and extracts the content of the clipboard, scans it for a
URL, and pastes that to the clipboard.

I've found that quite a few apps have a "Share" functionality, but no "copy the
URL of what I'm looking at to the clipboard", and I haven't found any existing
app that works around this.
